All right, so, let's keep going,
let's get started.
Phil, help me out.
We're gonna go around the room.
Phil, line one of our JavaScript.
With that in mind, that we're gonna have
to make everything on the page depend on
our data, we're gonna start off by having
our post as, we've got three states here.
Sorry, Phil.
We've got three different
stages of our data here.
Post can be undefined by the looks of it,
posts can then be empty string
before they start typing, and
then posts can be whatever the user is
typing, the value of what they're typing.
So undefined, so that's the shift of
mentality we have to go to, which is,
define what the user can see in terms of
different possible values for our data.
It's quite a nice mental model,
I quite like that as a mental model.
So what's our first state
that our data can take, Phil?
>> So we're gonna declare
a post let variable and
initialize it to the value of undefined.
>> Beautiful, okay.
A post initialize it to undefined.
And then what are we going to,
in line two,
store in our global content there.
Feel free to keep going and
interrupt me as I go as well.
>> Yeah.
So we're gonna declare
a variable jsInput and
initialize it to the evaluated
results of running the query
selector method on the document object,
passing in the argument of input.
>> Beautiful, feel free to keep going.
>> Okay.
This is going to allow us to access or
to reverse the actual C++ DOM,
searching for
a node of the value of
input which it finds.
>> Yes it does, there it is.
>> And because we can't bring
that C++ object back into
JavaScript-
>> Right.
>> We create an accessor object.
>> Brilliant.
>> Is stored under the jsInput.
>> Brilliant, which has a whole
bunch of useful properties that
act as getter setters, which I include?
>> Which include, let me scan through
here, which include the dot value.
>> Yes, exactly, value.
All the way down to the bottom
there's a couple more there.
>> Which include the on click and-
>> Perfect, I think that's it.
Is that it, everyone?
>> On input as well.
>> Did I get on it?
Sorry, I thought you said on input.
Yeah, I got all three of those.
Brilliant, they are all acting
as getter setters to add values,
handlers, whatever,
to the DOM C++ object, hooray, beautiful.
That is what came out of
running querySelector.
Once my pens work, it's so
much, makes me so happy.
There's the hidden link and
then there's the functions.
I'm just sort of showing the shape, right?
Hidden link and then the methods.
Okay, by analogy,
what are we saving in jsDiv?
Why?
>> Yes, what are we saving to it?
>> Yeah, just buy analogy, I mean,
unless people feel like we're not at
the stage where we want
to just do it by analogy.
Is, we're at the stage where we wanna
do it by-
>> [LAUGH]
>> By not drawing it, by just saying it.
>> I stand with my tea.
>> Yeah.
All right, good, good, good.
So what's jsDiv gonna have in it after
querySelector has finished executing?
>> We forgot the textContent accessor.
>> Yes, textContent.
Why don't we start with what element
in the DOM it's going to have a hidden
reference to.
>> Sorry.
Yeah,
it's going to link to the first
div that are located in the DOM.
>> Brilliant, no people the first div.
Exactly, well put, and
as you say, what method?
>> textContent.
>> Beautiful, perfect, sweet.
That's brilliant, I love it.
So, well done, and
now let's save our three functions.
One of them is a big deal function.
The other, to be fair, actually,
they're all pretty important, right?
One of them is our spray out,
and the other is our pinpoint in.
Yeah perfect.
Sorry, the other two are our pinpoint in.
So let's have all of those defined for
us, why?
>> We are defining
the function dataToView.
>> Perfect.
>> Also defining handleclick and
handleInput.
>> Handleclick, I reordered these here.
It has no effect, of course,
notably in JavaScript,
because we would love maybe in some way to
be able to determine the order of things
happening on this page via
the order of code in JavaScript.
But I did actually switch.
You can see, handleclick and
handleInput and then the onclick and
oninput assignment.
Just because the user is gonna click
first and then start writing second,
but it has obviously no effect,
is just for our visual experience.
Okay, then we have,
let's make sure it's clear that separate.
Now we get to adding these two functions
as handlers on our Input
element on the DOM.
Alexa, can you help me with that,
in line 19 and 20?
We'll do the first one.
>> Okay, so
we're gonna find our jsInput object.
>> Yep.
>> And use the onclick setter to set our
handleclick function as the callback.
>> Yep.
>> For
handling a the event that a user clicks.
>> Perfect, brilliant,
handleclick function.
Yeah, and
that is gonna be set as the, yeah,
honestly the click handler,
callback function.
That's not a bad name for it, exactly.
So for click, don't worry though.
Look at that, that's amazing.
I'm so relieved as you can see,
handleclick function, handleclick.
Callback function, callback because
it's gonna be called back in.
Can I separate these with
a line just to make it clear,
right, but they are object,
object, object in C++.
Instantiations of classes that can produce
a div object in the dominant list in C++.
And the next one,
I guess by analogy we can do again, Alexa,
we just do exactly what you said,
again I won't write it again no.
>> Yeah we find the JSON input object with
that link to the input element on the DOM.
And set the handleInput function as
a callback for handling input event.
>> handleInput function.
Okay, great stuff.
I'm feeling a bit like, people are gonna
be, yeah, yeah, yeah, we got it.
But I tell you,
that's the nature of hard parts.
I'm making excuses for it here,
but that is the nature.
So we put our handlers on, sweet.
Now, now we want to update
what the user sees.
We're not worrying about the input and
div, that was set by HTML.
That might become a question in
its own right in a bit tomorrow.
However, all we're determining that can
be changed by the user is the content
of elements, the value or
the text content or whatever.
Meaning, there should be
nothing in the value and
text content of DOM elements,
in other words,
no content that the user sees that is not
traceable back to some data in JavaScript.
What a great restriction on ourselves.
What a way to be guaranteed to know
what's displaying on the page,
it's whatever's here.
And then check the data to view converter
to see what the conditional logic is to
determine what's gonna display on the page
based off that data, based off that state.
State-driven views, yeah,
we've heard multiple words for it.
But this is a paradigm shift,
honestly, in UI engineering.
Okay, so let's run our
dataToview converter function,
dataToview, dataToview, execution core,
brand new, everyone together.
>> Execution context.
>> Beautiful, and its job is to
convert our data to our view.
Now that conversion might
include determining.
It means based on the data,
determine what to display on the view.
So that might be as we're about
to do here, if post is undefined,
you're not gonna display undefined,
you're gonna use that information
to determine what to display.
And that's where you have to
start reasoning about your, and
that's where you start to see there's
a lot of conditionals in your UI code to
determine of your underlying state,
what's gonna end up being displayed.
So with that in mind,
all right, we have jsInput.
We're gonna use our value setter, right?
Whatever's on the right hand side is
gonna be stored on value here and
show up to the user.
All right, is post undefined?
Let's go to Justice, is post undefined?
>> If posts is undefined.
>> These posts are undefined is our state.
Is it undefined?
>> It is undefined, yes.
>> It is undefined.
If it's undefined, what are we
going to assign to jsInput.value or
what are we going to use our
set a value property to assign
to the C++ object as its value?
>> You're gonna set a string for
what called, what's up?
>> Brilliant, exactly.
So post is actually undefined therefore,
we evaluate the ternary to
evaluate to become the value of the first
thing in it, which is, what's up.
Anyone have a better word for that?
>> Operand?
>> What a show.
>> Yeah, no, operand.
>> That sounds about right,
all right, first operand, I know.
Good stuff.
So it's gonna be what's up,
right now is, it's the.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I don't know, I've done it, I don't,
I'm sure, he's very nice actually.
Well, yeah, he's very loving.
Okay, 'what's up', there it is.
Okay, and
that is gonna use the setter method,
set a property value to set that
as the value on our DOM element,
and that's gonna show up as our
preview text or our, sorry.
Yeah, as a, whatever it's called.
Default text, perfect.
Then we are gonna use our,
this is interesting.
We're gonna do the same thing to determine
what our content of our div will be.
Using our textContent setter and it's
going to be whatever the value of post is,
which is undefined and helpfully.
Fairly helpfully, our API for
the textContent setter,
getter property on a div,
evaluates or converts or
assesses undefined and
assigns an empty string.
That's pretty nice.
That ensures that we don't need to
write any conditional logic to say,
if it's undefined,
please don't post undefined as a text.
It actually evaluates to an empty
string so nothing shows up, beautiful.
I honestly, I do really love that now
everything we do runs from data through
a bunch of clever conditionals to
determine not that clever here, but
rearranging.
Engineers will do clever conditionals
here, to determine what, based
on the state, what based on the data,
will show up on the view, on the page.
Perfect, and we've done it.
We've got our one function here,
we're done.